HANS PLACE, Sunday (Nov. 26).

MY DEAREST,--The parcel arrived safely, and I am much obliged to you for
your trouble. It cost 2_s._ 10_d._, but as there is a certain saving of
2_s._ 4Â½_d._ on the other side, I am sure it is well worth doing. I send
four pair of silk stockings, but I do not want them washed at present.
In the three neckhandkerchiefs I include the one sent down before. These
things, perhaps, Edwd. may be able to bring, but even if he is not, I am
extremely pleased with his returning to you from Steventon. It is much
better, far preferable.

I did mention the P. R. in my note to Mr. Murray; it brought me a fine
compliment in return. Whether it has done any other good I do not know,
but Henry thought it worth trying.

The printers continue to supply me very well. I am advanced in Vol. III.
to my _arra_-root, upon which peculiar style of spelling there is a
modest query in the margin. I will not forget Anna's arrowroot. I hope
you have told Martha of my first resolution of letting nobody know that
I might dedicate, etc., for fear of being obliged to do it, and that she
is thoroughly convinced of my being influenced now by nothing but the
most mercenary motives. I have paid nine shillings on her account to
Miss Palmer; there was no more owing.

Well, we were very busy all yesterday; from half-past eleven till four
in the streets, working almost entirely for other people, driving from
place to place after a parcel for Sandling, which we could never find,
and encountering the miseries of Grafton House to get a purple frock for
Eleanor Bridges. We got to Keppel St., however, which was all I cared
for; and though we could stay only a quarter of an hour, Fanny's calling
gave great pleasure, and her sensibility still greater, for she was very
much affected at the sight of the children. Poor little F. looked
heavy. We saw the whole party.

Aunt Harriet hopes Cassy will not forget to make a pincushion for Mrs.
Kelly, as she has spoken of its being promised her several times. I hope
we shall see Aunt H. and the dear little girls here on Thursday.

So much for the morning. Then came the dinner and Mr. Haden, who brought
good manners and clever conversation. From seven to eight the harp; at
eight Mrs. L. and Miss E. arrived, and for the rest of the evening the
drawing-room was thus arranged: on the sofa side the two ladies, Henry,
and myself making the best of it; on the opposite side Fanny and Mr.
Haden, in two chairs (I believe, at least, they had two chairs), talking
together uninterruptedly. Fancy the scene! And what is to be fancied
next? Why, that Mr. H. dines here again to-morrow. To-day we are to have
Mr. Barlow. Mr. H. is reading "Mansfield Park" for the first time, and
prefers it to P. and P.

A hare and four rabbits from Gm. yesterday, so that we are stocked for
nearly a week. Poor Farmer Andrews! I am very sorry for him, and
sincerely wish his recovery.

A better account of the sugar than I could have expected. I should like
to help you break some more. I am glad you cannot wake early; I am sure
you must have been under great arrears of rest.

Fanny and I have been to B. Chapel, and walked back with Maria Cuthbert.
We have been very little plagued with visitors this last week. I
remember only Miss Herries, the aunt, but I am in terror for to-day, a
fine bright Sunday; plenty of mortar, and nothing to do.

Henry gets out in his garden every day, but at present his inclination
for doing more seems over, nor has he now any plan for leaving London
before Dec. 18, when he thinks of going to Oxford for a few days;
to-day, indeed, his feelings are for continuing where he is through the
next two months.

One knows the uncertainty of all this; but should it be so, we must
think the best, and hope the best, and do the best; and my idea in that
case is, that when he goes to Oxford I should go home, and have nearly a
week of you before you take my place. This is only a silent project, you
know, to be gladly given up if better things occur. Henry calls himself
stronger every day, and Mr. H. keeps on approving his pulse, which seems
generally better than ever, but still they will not let him be well.
Perhaps when Fanny is gone he will be allowed to recover faster.

I am not disappointed: I never thought the little girl at Wyards very
pretty, but she will have a fine complexion and curly hair, and pass for
a beauty. We are glad the mamma's cold has not been worse, and send her
our love and good wishes by every convenient opportunity. Sweet, amiable
Frank! why does he have a cold too? Like Captain Mirvan to Mr. Duval,[36]
"I wish it well over with him."

Fanny has heard all that I have said to you about herself and Mr. H.
Thank you very much for the sight of dearest Charles's letter to
yourself. How pleasantly and how naturally he writes! and how perfect a
picture of his disposition and feelings his style conveys! Poor dear
fellow! Not a present!

I have a great mind to send him all the twelve copies which were to have
been dispersed among my near connections, beginning with the P. R.[2]
and ending with Countess Morley. Adieu.

                                  Yours affectionately,
                                                   J. AUSTEN.

Give my love to Cassy and Mary Jane. Caroline will be gone when this
reaches you.

  Miss AUSTEN.

FOOTNOTES:

[36] Characters in Miss Burney's "Evelina."

[37] Prince Regent.