CHAWTON, Friday (January 29, 1813).

I HOPE you received my little parcel by J. Bond on Wednesday evening, my
dear Cassandra, and that you will be ready to hear from me again on
Sunday, for I feel that I must write to you to-day. I want to tell you
that I have got my own darling child[15] from London. On Wednesday I
received one copy sent down by Falkener, with three lines from Henry to
say that he had given another to Charles and sent a third by the coach
to Godmersham. . . . The advertisement is in our paper to-day for the first
time: 18_s._ He shall ask 1_l._ 1_s._ for my two next, and 1_l._ 8_s._
for my stupidest of all. Miss B. dined with us on the very day of the
book's coming, and in the evening we fairly set at it, and read half the
first vol. to her, prefacing that, having intelligence from Henry that
such a work would soon appear, we had desired him to send it whenever it
came out, and I believe it passed with her unsuspected. She was amused,
poor soul! _That_ she could not help, you know, with two such people to
lead the way; but she really does seem to admire Elizabeth. I must
confess that I think her as delightful a creature as ever appeared in
print, and how I shall be able to tolerate those who do not like _her_
at least, I do not know. There are a few typical errors; and a "said
he," or a "said she," would sometimes make the dialogue more immediately
clear; but "I do not write for such dull elves" as have not a great deal
of ingenuity themselves. The second volume is shorter than I could wish,
but the difference is not so much in reality as in look, there being a
larger proportion of narrative in that part. I have lop't and crop't so
successfully, however, that I imagine it must be rather shorter than
"Sense and Sensibility" altogether. Now I will try and write of
something else.