GODMERSHAM PARK, Wednesday (Nov. 3).

MY DEAREST CASSANDRA,--I will keep this celebrated birthday by writing
to you; and as my pen seems inclined to write large, I will put my lines
very close together. I had but just time to enjoy your letter yesterday
before Edward and I set off in the chair for Canty., and I allowed him
to hear the chief of it as we went along.

We rejoice sincerely in Henry's gaining ground as he does, and hope
there will be weather for him to get out every day this week, as the
likeliest way of making him equal to what he plans for the next. If he
is tolerably well, the going into Oxfordshire will make him better, by
making him happier.

Can it be that I have not given you the minuti√¶ of Edward's plans? See,
here they are: To go to Wrotham on Saturday the 13th, spend Sunday
there, and be in town on Monday to dinner, and if agreeable to Henry,
spend one whole day with him, which day is likely to be Tuesday, and so
go down to Chawton on Wednesday.

But now I cannot be quite easy without staying a little while with
Henry, unless he wishes it otherwise; his illness and the dull time of
year together make me feel that it would be horrible of me not to offer
to remain with him, and therefore unless you know of any objection, I
wish you would tell him with my best love that I shall be most happy to
spend ten days or a fortnight in Henrietta St., if he will accept me. I
do not offer more than a fortnight, because I shall then have been some
time from home; but it will be a great pleasure to be with him, as it
always is. I have the less regret and scruple on your account, because I
shall see you for a day and a half, and because you will have Edward for
at least a week. My scheme is to take Bookham in my way home for a few
days, and my hope that Henry will be so good as to send me some part of
the way thither. I have a most kind repetition of Mrs. Cooke's two or
three dozen invitations, with the offer of meeting me anywhere in one of
her airings.

Fanny's cold is much better. By dosing and keeping her room on Sunday,
she got rid of the worst of it, but I am rather afraid of what this day
may do for her; she is gone to Canty. with Miss Clewes, Liz., and
Ma^{rnne}, and it is but roughish weather for any one in a tender state.
Miss Clewes has been going to Canty. ever since her return, and it is
now just accomplishing.

Edward and I had a delightful morning for our drive there, I enjoyed it
thoroughly; but the day turned off before we were ready, and we came
home in some rain and the apprehension of a great deal. It has not done
us any harm, however. He went to inspect the gaol, as a visiting
magistrate, and took me with him. I was gratified, and went through all
the feelings which people must go through, I think, in visiting such a
building. We paid no other visits, only walked about snugly together,
and shopped. I bought a concert ticket and a sprig of flowers for my old
age.

To vary the subject from gay to grave with inimitable address, I shall
now tell you something of the Bath party--and still a Bath party they
are, for a fit of the gout came on last week. The accounts of Lady B.
are as good as can be under such a circumstance; Dr. P. says it appears
a good sort of gout, and her spirits are better than usual, but as to
her coming away, it is of course all uncertainty. I have very little
doubt of Edward's going down to Bath, if they have not left it when he
is in Hampshire; if he does, he will go on from Steventon, and then
return direct to London, without coming back to Chawton. This detention
does not suit his feelings. It may be rather a good thing, however, that
Dr. P. should see Lady B. with the gout on her. Harriot was quite
wishing for it.

The day seems to improve. I wish my pen would too.

Sweet Mr. Ogle! I dare say he sees all the panoramas for nothing, has
free admittance everywhere; he is so delightful! Now, you need not see
anybody else.

I am glad to hear of our being likely to have a peep at Charles and
Fanny at Christmas, but do not force poor Cass. to stay if she hates it.
You have done very right as to Mrs. F. A. Your tidings of S. and S. give
me pleasure. I have never seen it advertised.

Harriot, in a letter to Fanny to-day, inquires whether they sell cloths
for pelisses at Bedford House, and, if they do, will be very much
obliged to you to desire them to send her down patterns, with the width
and prices; they may go from Charing Cross almost any day in the week,
but if it is a ready-money house it will not do, for the _bru_ of _feu_
the Archbishop says she cannot pay for it immediately. Fanny and I
suspect they do not deal in the article.

The Sherers, I believe, are now really going to go; Joseph has had a bed
here the last two nights, and I do not know whether this is not the day
of moving. Mrs. Sherer called yesterday to take leave. The weather looks
worse again.

We dine at Chilham Castle to-morrow, and I expect to find some
amusement, but more from the concert the next day, as I am sure of
seeing several that I want to see. We are to meet a party from
Goodnestone, Lady B., Miss Hawley, and Lucy Foote, and I am to meet Mrs.
Harrison, and we are to talk about Ben and Anna. "My dear Mrs.
Harrison," I shall say, "I am afraid the young man has some of your
family madness; and though there often appears to be something of
madness in Anna too, I think she inherits more of it from her mother's
family than from ours." That is what I shall say, and I think she will
find it difficult to answer me.

I took up your letter again to refresh me, being somewhat tired, and was
struck with the prettiness of the hand: it is really a very pretty hand
now and then,--so small and so neat! I wish I could get as much into a
sheet of paper.[27] Another time I will take two days to make a letter
in: it is fatiguing to write a whole long one at once. I hope to hear
from you again on Sunday and again on Friday, the day before we move.
On Monday, I suppose, you will be going to Streatham, to see quiet Mr.
Hill and eat very bad baker's bread.

A fall in bread by the by. I hope my mother's bill next week will show
it. I have had a very comfortable letter from her, one of her foolscap
sheets quite full of little home news. Anna was there the first of the
two days. An Anna sent away and an Anna fetched are different things.
This will be an excellent time for Ben to pay his visit, now that we,
the formidables, are absent.

I did not mean to eat, but Mr. Johncock has brought in the tray, so I
must. I am all alone. Edward is gone into his woods. At this present
time I have five tables, eight-and-twenty chairs, and two fires all to
myself.

Miss Clewes is to be invited to go to the concert with us; there will be
my brother's place and ticket for her, as he cannot go. He and the other
connections of the Cages are to meet at Milgate that very day, to
consult about a proposed alteration of the Maidstone road, in which the
Cages are very much interested. Sir Brook comes here in the morning, and
they are to be joined by Mr. Deedes at Ashford. The loss of the concert
will be no great evil to the Squire. We shall be a party of three ladies
therefore, and to meet three ladies.

What a convenient carriage Henry's is, to his friends in general! Who
has it next? I am glad William's going is voluntary, and on no worse
grounds. An inclination for the country is a venial fault. He has more
of Cowper than of Johnson in him,--fonder of tame hares and blank verse
than of the full tide of human existence at Charing Cross.

Oh! I have more of such sweet flattery from Miss Sharp. She is an
excellent kind friend. I am read and admired in Ireland too. There is a
Mrs. Fletcher, the wife of a judge, an old lady, and very good and very
clever, who is all curiosity to know about me,--what I am like, and so
forth. I am not known to her by name, however. This comes through Mrs.
Carrick, not through Mrs. Gore. You are quite out there.

I do not despair of having my picture in the Exhibition at last,--all
white and red, with my head on one side; or perhaps I may marry young
Mr. D'Arblay. I suppose in the mean time I shall owe dear Henry a great
deal of money for printing, etc.

I hope Mrs. Fletcher will indulge herself with S. and S. If I am to stay
in H. S., and if you should be writing home soon, I wish you would be so
good as to give a hint of it, for I am not likely to write there again
these ten days, having written yesterday.

Fanny has set her heart upon its being a Mr. Brett who is going to marry
a Miss Dora Best, of this country. I dare say Henry has no objection.
Pray, where did the boys sleep?

The Deedes come here on Monday to stay till Friday, so that we shall end
with a flourish the last canto. They bring Isabella and one of the
grown-ups, and will come in for a Canty. ball on Thursday. I shall be
glad to see them. Mrs. Deedes and I must talk rationally together, I
suppose.

Edward does not write to Henry, because of my writing so often. God
bless you. I shall be so glad to see you again, and I wish you many
happy returns of this day. Poor Lord Howard! How he does cry about it!

                                      Yours very truly,        J. A.

  Miss AUSTEN,
    10 Henrietta Street, Covent Garden, London.

hardly possible to imagine anything neater or prettier than Jane's own
hand. Most of her letters are beautifully written, and the MS. of her
"Lady Susan" remarkably so.--_Note by Lord_ BRABOURNE.