SLOANE STREET, Monday (May 24).

MY DEAREST CASSANDRA,--I am very much obliged to you for writing to me.
You must have hated it after a worrying morning. Your letter came just
in time to save my going to Remnant's, and fit me for Christian's, where
I bought Fanny's dimity.

I went the day before (Friday) to Layton's as I proposed, and got my
mother's gown,--seven yards at 6_s._ 6_d._ I then walked into No. 10,
which is all dirt and confusion, but in a very promising way; and after
being present at the opening of a new account, to my great amusement,
Henry and I went to the exhibition in Spring Gardens. It is not thought
a good collection, but I was very well pleased, particularly (pray tell
Fanny) with a small portrait of Mrs. Bingley,[1] excessively like her.

I went in hopes of seeing one of her sister, but there was no Mrs.
Darcy.[18] Perhaps, however, I may find her in the great exhibition,
which we shall go to if we have time. I have no chance of her in the
collection of Sir Joshua Reynolds's paintings, which is now showing in
Pall Mall, and which we are also to visit.

Mrs. Bingley's is exactly herself,--size, shaped face, features, and
sweetness; there never was a greater likeness. She is dressed in a white
gown, with green ornaments, which convinces me of what I had always
supposed, that green was a favorite color with her. I dare say Mrs. D.
will be in yellow.

Friday was our worst day as to weather. We were out in a very long and
very heavy storm of hail, and there had been others before, but I heard
no thunder. Saturday was a good deal better; dry and cold.

I gave 2_s._ 6_d._ for the dimity. I do not boast of any bargains, but
think both the sarsenet and dimity good of their sort.

I have bought your locket, but was obliged to give 18_s._ for it, which
must be rather more than you intended. It is neat and plain, set in
gold.

We were to have gone to the Somerset House Exhibition on Saturday, but
when I reached Henrietta Street Mr. Hampson was wanted there, and Mr.
Tilson and I were obliged to drive about town after him, and by the time
we had done it was too late for anything but home. We never found him
after all.

I have been interrupted by Mrs. Tilson. Poor woman! She is in danger of
not being able to attend Lady Drummond Smith's party to-night. Miss
Burdett was to have taken her, and now Miss Burdett has a cough and
will not go. My cousin Caroline is her sole dependence.

The events of yesterday were, our going to Belgrave Chapel in the
morning, our being prevented by the rain from going to evening service
at St. James, Mr. Hampson's calling, Messrs. Barlow and Phillips dining
here, and Mr. and Mrs. Tilson's coming in the evening _Ã  l'ordinaire_.
She drank tea with us both Thursday and Saturday; he dined out each day,
and on Friday we were with them, and they wish us to go to them
to-morrow evening, to meet Miss Burdett, but I do not know how it will
end. Henry talks of a drive to Hampstead, which may interfere with it.

I should like to see Miss Burdett very well, but that I am rather
frightened by hearing that she wishes to be introduced to me. If I am a
wild beast, I cannot help it. It is not my own fault.

There is no change in our plan of leaving London, but we shall not be
with you before Tuesday. Henry thinks Monday would appear too early a
day. There is no danger of our being induced to stay longer.

I have not quite determined how I shall manage about my clothes; perhaps
there may be only my trunk to send by the coach, or there may be a
band-box with it. I have taken your gentle hint, and written to Mrs.
Hill.

The Hoblyns want us to dine with them, but we have refused. When Henry
returns he will be dining out a great deal, I dare say; as he will then
be alone, it will be more desirable; he will be more welcome at every
table, and every invitation more welcome to him. He will not want either
of us again till he is settled in Henrietta Street. This is my present
persuasion. And he will not be settled there--really settled--till late
in the autumn; "he will not be come to bide" till after September.

There is a gentleman in treaty for this house. Gentleman himself is in
the country, but gentleman's friend came to see it the other day, and
seemed pleased on the whole. Gentleman would rather prefer an increased
rent to parting with five hundred guineas at once, and if that is the
only difficulty it will not be minded. Henry is indifferent as to the
which.

Get us the best weather you can for Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. We
are to go to Windsor in our way to Henley, which will be a great
delight. We shall be leaving Sloane Street about twelve, two or three
hours after Charles's party have begun their journey. You will miss
them, but the comfort of getting back into your own room will be great.
And then the tea and sugar!

I fear Miss Clewes is not better, or you would have mentioned it. I
shall not write again unless I have any unexpected communication or
opportunity to tempt me. I enclose Mr. Herington's bill and receipt.

I am very much obliged to Fanny for her letter; it made me laugh
heartily, but I cannot pretend to answer it. Even had I more time, I
should not feel at all sure of the sort of letter that Miss D.[19] would
write. I hope Miss Benn is got well again, and will have a comfortable
dinner with you to-day.

_Monday Evening._--We have been both to the exhibition and Sir J.
Reynolds's, and I am disappointed, for there was nothing like Mrs. D. at
either. I can only imagine that Mr. D. prizes any picture of her too
much to like it should be exposed to the public eye. I can imagine he
would have that sort of feeling,--that mixture of love, pride, and
delicacy.

Setting aside this disappointment, I had great amusement among the
pictures; and the driving about, the carriage being open, was very
pleasant. I liked my solitary elegance very much, and was ready to laugh
all the time at my being where I was. I could not but feel that I had
naturally small right to be parading about London in a barouche.

Henry desires Edward may know that he has just bought three dozen of
claret for him (cheap), and ordered it to be sent down to Chawton.

I should not wonder if we got no farther than Reading on Thursday
evening, and so reach Steventon only to a reasonable dinner-hour the
next day; but whatever I may write or you may imagine, we know it will
be something different. I shall be quiet to-morrow morning; all my
business is done, and I shall only call again upon Mrs. Hoblyn, etc.

Love to your much . . . party.

                                  Yours affectionately,
                                                     J. AUSTEN.

FOOTNOTES:

[18] _Vide_ "Pride and Prejudice."

[19] Miss Darcy.